Add `Capture The Achievement 2 Concludes` news post (#13640)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-08-25-capture-the-achievement-2-concludes.md

---
layout: post

> title: Capture The Achievement 2 Concludes

Reviewer: it'd be nicer if more unique titles would fit for these types of posts, but if anything, contests mostly use "results"

```suggestion
title: Capture The Achievement 2 Results
```

So yeah, that was Sound In Motion, once again thanks to [Sheppsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14895608) for giving the idea for and making the slider anchors and [TamamoLover](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7772622) for making the map. I promise the next one will be even better.

</div>

### The Everlasting Epigrapher

|  |  |
| --: | :-- |
| Description | Finally, your grand discovery will rock all. |
| Mode | Catch |
| Creator | ::{ flag=US }:: [Sheppsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14895608) |
| Completions | 7 |

> | Solution & more | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/314) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Solution | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/314) |
```

> As the creator of this achievement, I'm certainly biased, but it was definitely my favorite. The idea was initially proposed by [Anonymoose](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11153810) to somehow use the cryptic language in [Yooh - Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2402789#fruits/5211146) for an achievement—this being before the translation was revealed. When I got some free time, I decided to try translating the language, and [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) joined in to help me. After an hour, we had a table of symbols to letters (except J and Z, which we're pretty sure were not used anywhere). In the process, [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) had translated the text on all 5 rocks. Come a few days later, I finally had a good idea of how we could use this all in an achievement, and thus **The Everlasting Epigrapher** was born. The CWC team absolutely cooked with this tiebreaker and I think it's pretty cool that we were able to use their little easter egg in an achievement. Like Sound In Motion, this one was also made to be pretty difficult, so well done to the 7 teams that completed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the creator of this achievement ([Sheppsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14895608)), I'm certainly biased, but it was definitely my favourite. The idea was initially proposed by [Anonymoose](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11153810) to somehow use the cryptic language in [Yooh - Eternity](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2402789#fruits/5211146) for an achievement — this being before the translation was revealed. After finding some free time, I was trying to decipher it with [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) also joining in.

After an hour, we had a table of symbols to letters (except J and Z, which we're pretty sure were not used anywhere). In the process, [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) had translated the text on all 5 rocks. Come a few days later, I finally had a good idea of how we could use this all in an achievement, and thus **The Everlasting Epigrapher** was born. The CWC team absolutely cooked with this tiebreaker and I think it's pretty cool that we were able to use their little easter egg. Like the "Sound In Motion" achievement, this one was also made to be pretty difficult, so well done to the 7 teams that completed it!
```

### Graphic Design Is My Passion

|  |  |
| --: | :-- |
| Description | Sheppsu's been busy updating the site, so he put me in charge of graphic design. The lineup he gave me looked a bit unfamiliar, but I managed to pull things off with the help of some dark magic. [https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/graphic_2b2d5018fe0cb636.html](https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/graphic_2b2d5018fe0cb636.html) |
| Mode | Any |
| Creator | ::{ flag=CA }:: [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) |
| Completions | 19 |

> | Solution & more | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/271) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Solution | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/271) |
```

> [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) made several puzzle-oriented achievements that were widely loved. It's tough to pick just one to highlight, but this one was among the most favorite. Best of all, you can [try it yourself](https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/graphic_2b2d5018fe0cb636.html)! You can read [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623)'s comment on this one and see the answers [here](https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/solutions_e1529b90acab3664/solutions.html#graphic-design-is-my-passion).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) made several puzzle-oriented achievements that were widely loved. It's tough to pick just one to highlight, but this one was among the favourites. Best of all, you can [try it yourself](https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/graphic_2b2d5018fe0cb636.html)! You can [read yandax's write-up on the solution here](https://yanda-dy.github.io/cta2-external/solutions_e1529b90acab3664/solutions.html#graphic-design-is-my-passion).
```

### INSERT COIN

|  |  |
| --: | :-- |
| Description | INSERT COIN |
| Mode | Mania |
| Creator | ::{ flag=CA }:: [Dragon20942](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6147964) |
| Completions | 40 |

> | Solution & more | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/215) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Solution | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/215) |
```

> [Dragon20942](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6147964) made several achievements with interesting wordplay, and **INSERT COIN** was liked by many. I also recommend checking out **Perpertually Anxious** and **Ball Load Error** on the [achievements page](https://cta.sheppsu.me/iterations/2/achievements). I'll let [Dragon20942](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6147964) take it away from here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dragon20942](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6147964) made several achievements with interesting wordplay, and **INSERT COIN** was liked by many. If you liked this one, you should also check out **Perpertually Anxious** and **Ball Load Error** on the [achievements page](https://cta.sheppsu.me/iterations/2/achievements). I'll let [Dragon20942](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6147964) take it away from here:
```

1. I floated the idea of the mods spelling something - [Daanny](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7183087) had also thought of this
2. I asked about a canonical mod order - [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) found it and also generated a list of possible words we could spell out
3. We brainstormed and found a few words/maps to try (like SODA and DANS)
4. I suggested COIN and Insert Coin mapsets
5. [yandax](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17465623) playtested the COIN mod combination
6. [Daanny](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7183087) and I tuned the final difficulty/polish:
   - Redundant title/description highlights the idea that there are 2 conceptual "COINs" and the repetition evokes the idea of the prompt flashing on an arcade cabinet
   - COIN should be capitalized since it refers to a mod abbreviation
   - INSERT being capitalized helps further underscore the retro/arcade theming while adding some obfuscation for the idea of COIN referring to mods

> Thank you to everyone who took a crack at it - I'm glad people enjoyed :3

Reviewer: again, we usually write without the "I"

```suggestion
Thank you to everyone who took a crack at it!
```

</div>

### ￼

|  |  |
| --: | :-- |
| Description | Wait, wasn't there supposed to be something here? |
| Mode | Any |
| Creator | ::{ flag=LV }:: [Anonymoose](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11153810) |
| Completions | 23 |
| Solution & more | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/219) |

This achievement, while having a simple solution, required some out-of-the-box thinking. It's a pretty cool one for the creativity in its solution. Still, it wasn't challenging enough for some, with the first completion being 6 minutes after release and 23 teams completing it!

### Touhosu!

|  |  |
| --: | :-- |
| Description | No Bombs, No Border Breaks, No Deaths. How far can you push it? You must play with exactly the following mods: NF, HT, DA(AR11), HD, and FL (use default settings if not specified). |
| Mode | Catch |
| Beatmap | [ZUN - Necrofantasia \[Phantasm Stage\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1881398#fruits/3873376) |
| Creator | ::{ flag=US }:: [catgirl enjoyer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18319269) |
| More | [Click here](https://cta.sheppsu.me/achievements/298) |

> This is one of the nine competition achievements, which were popular for their replayability. No secrets here, just a pretty cool [Necrofantasia map from Luscent](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1881398#fruits/3873376) where you play Touhou in osu!. There were 6 players able to get down to the lowest score of 1 fruit caught (0 doesn't submit), so well played. I'd highly recommend trying the map yourself, even if you've never played catch before. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is one of the nine competition achievements, which were popular for their replayability. No secrets here, just a pretty cool [Necrofantasia map from Luscent](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1881398#fruits/3873376) where you play Touhou in osu!. There were 6 players able to get down to the lowest score of 1 fruit caught (0 doesn't submit), so well played. Even if you've never played osu!catch before, you'd miss out if you didn't check out this map at least once! 
```
